Lysozyme in Water Simulation

This folder contains the full setup and outputs from a GROMACS simulation of lysozyme solvated in a water box. The system was prepared by placing the protein in a cubic periodic box, adding water molecules and neutralizing the system with counterions. The workflow included energy minimization, NVT and NPT equilibration and a production MD run.

Folder Structure

input/
Contains coordinate, topology and restraint files used to build the system. This includes the protein structure, solvated boxes, processed files and topology information.

mdp/
Holds the parameter files for minimization, ion addition, NVT, NPT and production MD.

results/
Stores simulation outputs such as energy files, logs, checkpoint files, trajectories and final structures. If trajectory files were not uploaded, they can be regenerated using the commands listed below.

scripts/
For run scripts or helper scripts used to execute or manage the simulations.

Simulation Summary

Lysozyme was simulated in water to study its behavior under standard conditions. The system was minimized to remove clashes, equilibrated under controlled temperature and pressure and then simulated with a 2 fs time step. Hydrogen bond constraints were applied to maintain stable integration.

This dataset can serve as a reference for protein dynamics, solvent interactions and for reproducing standard biomolecular simulation workflows.

How to Regenerate Trajectories (.xtc)

If the xtc trajectory file is not included, it can be generated by rerunning the final tpr file using GROMACS version apps/gromacs/2024.2.

For this version:

gmx mdrun -deffnm md

This will recreate md.xtc, md.trr and other standard output files.

If you are using a different GROMACS version, first generate a new tpr and then run mdrun.

gmx grompp -f mdp/md.mdp -c results/npt.gro -p input/topol.top -o md.tpr

gmx mdrun -deffnm md

How to Use

Review input/ for system setup files. Check mdp/ for parameter settings. Explore results/ for final structures, logs and regenerated trajectories. Add any new scripts to scripts/ if the workflow is extended.
